New posts files are created with the `newPost` subcommand, such as:

```
$ ./yafssg newPost A New Post Title
```

[Markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown) - the default - and plain HTML are supported; use `--format html` to chose HTML for a given post, e.g.:

```
$ ./yafssg --format html newPost A New HTML Post Title
```

This will create a pair of identically-named files: an `.md` or `.html` for the content
and the other, a `.json` for metadata.

Everything after the `newPost` command will be used as the initial
post title, which can be changed at any time. Note that post title's is currently used as a
portion of its URL, so changing the title will change the post's URL.

Post title, draft and visibility statuses are maintained in the sidecar `.json` metadata file. This file is only ever read by YAFSSG, never written: it is for human input only.

_All_ posts will be written to the output path, per the following rules:

<u>Draft posts</u> (`draft: true`) will have a random string appended to their
filename to create posts that are avilable but hidden by virtue of unguessable names, such as:

```
Draft_Example.jzcvHFEgzLg4EWmg7peip.html
```

The randomized portion of this filename (here, `jzcvHFEgzLg4EWmg7peip`) will be changed _every time_ `build` is run! As a benefit, this makes re-hiding Draft posts very simple though: just rebuild.

<u>Hidden posts</u> (`draft: false` and `indexed: false`) will be written to disk
at their proper, canonical URL but will _not_ appear in the main index file or any feeds.
[An example]({{{ metadata.site_fqdn }}}/posts/2022/11/13/A_Hidden_Post.html).

<u>Published posts</u> (`draft: false` and `indexed: true`) will appear at their
canonical URL, _will_ be indexed on the front page and _will_ be included in feeds.



Next: [Building the Site]({{{ metadata.site_fqdn }}}/posts/2022/11/13/Building_the_Site.html)
